This screen allows you to change how
much damage an attack will do and how it will come up with the numbers.

Options appear and disappear as you change other options: those with no effect are hidden.

At the bottom of the screen, the calculation of the damage (DMG) and effect on the target is previewed in detail. Note that DMG is positive if harming and negative ("negated") when healing (as subtracting a negative value will increase the target stat). "limit(X, Y to Z)" means limit the value X to within the range Y to Z (no less than Y, no more than Z).

Use the Up and Down arrow keys (or PgUp, PgDn, Home, and End) to navigate the menu.

Use the Left or Right arrow keys to change the values.

Hold ALT and press the left or right arrow keys to change which attack you are editing, or type in an ID number.

*************************************

Number of Hits:
The number of hits you want the
attack to do. But if the attacker's
Hits stat is not zero then an
additional, random number of hits
will occur, unless you disable that
by either the attack or General
Preference bitset.

*************************************

Damage Math:
Changes the formula for how much
damage is done. The formula for each
choice is shown on-screen.  Below
are comments on using them.

-Normal:
 Good for your basic attacks as the
 standard formula.

-Blunt:
 Lowers attack slightly while
 cutting defense by a large amount.
 Very effective against high defense

-Sharp:
 Raises attack, but doesn't halve
 defense. Effective on low defense.

-Pure Damage:
 Ignores defense entirely, making it
 better for attacks with low power,
 status effect damage, items that
 heal for certain values, and so on.
 Also great for all powerful,
 devastating attacks.

-No Damage:
 Doesn't do damage at all, AND the
 attack will always hit and succeed.
 Good if you are making an attack
 that isn't a real attack, such as
 for graphical effect or for doing
 certain kinds of attack chains.
 NOTE! The attack can not miss or
 fail; the "Fail if target is muted/
 stunned/regened/poisoned" bitsets
 and Elemental failure conditions
 are ignored. But the "Reset mute/
 stun/regen/poison register" bits
 still take effect. The target
 remembers the attack for "Counter"
 targeting, and the attacker
 still remembers Last Target and
 Recorded (Stored) Targets.

-<Stat> = [N]% of Maximum:
 Sets the <target stat> to a
 percentage of its maximum value.

 For HP and MP, the max is self
 explanatory, but for other stats
 it's considered what the stat was
 when the battle started.

 Good for making stats weaker or
 stronger without stacking if used
 more than once such as a Haste or
 Protect spell.

 If the "percent is damage instead
 of set" damage bitset is turned on,
 then this becomes great for things
 such as healing 33% of HP.

 The percent, [N]%, can be changed
 by changing the 'Extra Damage'
 number.

-<Stat> = [N]% of Current:
 Much like above, but instead of
 using the maximum value, it changes
 based on what the stat currently
 is.

*************************************

Base Attack Stat:
What the word ATK is in the
formula. The stats themselves are
self-explanatory in use, so here are
explanations as to some of the
special values.

(NOTE for Last damage/cure options:
If an attack misses, fails, does no
damage, or shows damage without
inflicting, it doesn't affect the
value of 'Last damage' options: they
refer to the last attack which
actually decreased a stat
(regardless of which stat or status
register pseudo-stat it was!) 'Last
cure' options likewise are only
affected by attacks which increased
a stat.
If no damaging or curing attack has
happened yet, these values are zero.
Also, the effects of "Reset poison/
stun/etc register" and "Reset target
stat to max before hit" bits are
both ignored for the purpose of
determining whether the attack
hurt/cured - the latter is a bug!
So make sure you use "Set STAT to
100% of max" Damage Math instead of
the "Reset target stat to max before
hit" bit if using these options.)

-Last damage by attacker:
 The damage done by the attacker's
 last attack. Can be considered
 Mime-like at least in what the
 strength of the attack is.
 (See the NOTE above)

-Last damage to attacker:
 The strength of the attack here
 will be based on how much damage
 the last attack did to them.

 Not to be confused with remaining
 HP, this is good if you want an
 attack that punishes the use of
 strong attacks. Good in combination
 with Pure Damage to ensure damage
 back is similar to what just hit.
 (See the NOTE above)

-Last damage to target:
 The strength of the attack is based
 on how much damage was last done to
 the target.

 The damage done to the target could
 be done by anyone. Also good in
 combination with Pure Damage.
 (See the NOTE above)

-Last cure to attacker/target:
 Same as above, but for cure spells
 or spells that increase stats.
 (See the NOTE above)

-Lost HP:
 Damage will be based on how much HP
 in TOTAL has been lost.  Obviously
 meant for come back attacks or
 skills that reward delaying before
 healing.

-Random 0-999:
 Exactly as it says.  Great for
 attacks that are meant to be
 completely random such as for a
 gamber.

 Use the extra damage to potentially
 raise and lower the range of damage
 this will do (EX: 1000% will make
 this attack 0-9999, while 10% will
 make it 0-99).

 Keep in mind, this is a base
 attack, not the end damage value,
 so you may want to use Pure Damage
 in conjunction unless you prefer
 Defense to be factored in.

-100:
 Doesn't seem special. Just 100 base
 attack, but this is actually very
 useful in combination with Extra
 Damage in order to get specific
 values you may want for an attack.

 Say I want an item that heals for
 40 HP. With this and pure damage,
 just set the extra damage to -60%,
 and the 100 will turn into 40, and
 will do exactly that much healing.

 Also great for boosting stats.

*************************************

Base Defense Stat:
What the word DEF in the damage
formula will be. There are no
special values here other than the
list of stats.

*************************************

Target Stat:
What stat you want to actually
change. Normally HP, but can also be
used to lower MP, or alter any other
stats for beneficial or negative
effects.

There are some special target stats
that can be changed that are
actually status effects.

-Normal Stats

-Poison Register:
 The more damage inflicted to this,
 the more poisoned the
 character/enemy will be.

 Take care that the poison register
 actually increases with damage, so
 when using "set poison register to
 [N]% of maximum" that 0% is
 severely poisoned, and 100% is
 complely cured.

-Stun Register:
 The more damage inflicted to this,
 the longer the stun duration
 lasts. Each 1 damage is equal to 1
 second of stun.

 As with Poison, 0% of maximum is
 heavily stunned and 100% is no stun
 at all.

-Regen Register:
 The opposite of poison, where the
 hero is being periodically cured
 instead of damaged.

 Despite being a curing status
 effect, you still have to damage
 the Regen register to make its
 effect increase, while curing it
 will remove Regen much like the
 other status effects.

-Mute Register:
 The more damaged this is, the
 longer the target will be unable to
 use attacks with the bitset "fail
 if muted" turned on.

*************************************

Extra Damage:
Increase in percentage (100% = 2x,
1000% = 11x, etc..) in how much more
(or less) damage is done. Values
above 0% increase the damage, and
values below decrease it.
